# The Scopus Publication Lens (SPL)

Web app for exploring huge scatter plots of scientific publications found on Scopu. Based on the deepscatter framework, a library for allowing interactive visualization of extremely large datasets in browser, developed by Nomic-AI.

Deepscatter is provided under an NC-CC-BY-SA license for all noncommercial use.


# Documentation

The [autogenerated typescript documentation](https://nomic-ai.github.io/deepscatter/) for deepscatter.


# Quick start


## Running locally.

1. First, install the companion tiling library.

```sh
python3 -m pip install git+https://github.com/bmschmidt/quadfeather
```

2. Paste your CSV files in the ```data``` folder.

3. Prepare your data for deepscatter by running the following python scripts:

```sh
python3  parse_data_for_deepscatter.py
python3  keyword_to_geojson.py
quadfeather --files publications_for_deepscatter.csv --tile_size 50000 --destination tiles
```

4. Then setup this library to run. It will start a local dev server.

```sh
npm i
npm run dev
```

5. If you go to `localhost:3344`, you should see an interactive scatterplot. To dig into what you're seeing, open `index.html`.


## Build the module

```sh
npm run build
```

will create an ES module at `dist/deepscatter.es.js` The mechanics of
importing this are very slightly different than `index.html`.

Note that this is an ESM module and so requires you to use `<script type="module">` in your code.
Don't worry! We're allowed to
do this now! But do be aware that this will not work on computers running very old browsers.

Snippet:

```html
<div id="my-div"></div>
<script type="module">
  import Scatterplot from './dist/deepscatter.umd.js';
  f = new Scatterplot('#my-div');
</script>
```

See `index_prod.html` for an example

This is currently bundled with vite and rollup. There is/will be a further interaction layer on
top of it, but the core plotting components are separate and should work as a standalone layer that supports
plot requests via an API.
